This evaluation aims to rate and compare three systems in providing good example sentences for learners of Japanese at different proficiency levels.
An annotation block consists of proposed sentences by 3 systems for a target word, a context sentence and a target difficulty level.
The lists of sentences are supposed to help language learners to see diverse examples of a target word in context.

Difficulty: Rate the difficulty of each sentence according to the JLPT (Japanese Language Proficiency Test) scale, where N1 is the most difficult and N5 is the easiest.
Indicate which level a sentence belongs to (one of N1, N2, N3, N4, N5). It is possible that for the target level, the system proposes a sentence that is of a different level (higher or lower).
Below is a summary of the proficiency levels.
Level Description Summary Example
N1 Complex and abstract Japanese across various contexts. 「現代社会において、グローバル化の進展が国際的なコミュニケーションの重要性を高めており、異文化間の相互理解が求められている。」
N2 Everyday Japanese in varied situations, with clear materials on different topics. 「地球温暖化対策として、再生可能エネルギーの利用拡大が急務である。」
N3 Japanese in common everyday situations. 「このレストランは美味しいだけでなく、雰囲気も良いので、週末はいつも混んでいます。」
N4 Basic Japanese understanding, including familiar topics, basic vocabulary, and kanji. 「来週の日曜日に友達と映画を見に行く予定です。」
N5 Fundamental Japanese, including hiragana, katakana, and basic kanji. 「私は毎日、日本語を勉強します。」

Sense Similarity: Indicate if the target word in each sentence maintains a close sense as in the original context. Possible values: "similar", "not similar".
Think broadly and intuitively, rather than strictly by dictionary definitions.

Reject: For each sentence, indicate "Reject" if you think the sentence is not good or useful (for example because it does not reflect natural use).

Sentence diversity: For each system output list, rate the sentences diversity, focusing on the amount of different uses of syntax and structure. Possible values: "Low", "Medium", "High".

System ranking: Rank the systems' outputs from best to worst, considering the overall usefulness of the example sentences for that word, for a language learner of that proficiency level.

Comment: Leave a short comment.
